# Introduction
Takes in root file of delphes events and outputs a csv file. The csv file contains _______

The purpose of this notebook is to identify hh &rarr; 4b decay by pairing b jets in an event to figure out what their parent particles are. 

# Describing the Dataset
## Key Terms
| term  	| definition                          	|
|-------	|-------------------------------------	|
| dijet 	| a pair of jets  	|
| dijet pairing   	|  a pair of dijets determined to be generated by hh &rarr; 4b decay |
|       	|                                     	|
## Generated vs. Reconstructed
# Doing the Calculations
This programs matches b jets with eachother to indicate that they come from the same parent particle. A variety of different algorithms are used to match the jets with one another. Once the calculations have been done with each matching algorithm, they can be plotted to explore the results. 

## Pairing Algorithms
### minHarmonicMeanDeltaR
### closestDijetMassesToHiggs
The "best" dijets are those whose masses are closest to the mass of the Higgs Boson. The rationale here is that, due to conservation of momentum, the mass of the jets will be close to the mass of the mother particle.
### equalDijetMass
The best configuration of dijets is the one where the masses of the dijets are equal. The rationale is that if the dijets both came from the same type of particle, their masses will be equal.
### equalDeltaR
The best selection of dijets is the one where the delta R between the jets in each pdijet are equal. 
### dijetMasses
NOT used to select best pair. Is used make every possible jet pairing. This is used to look at distirbution of all jet pairings vs "best" jet pairings as selected by the other pairing algorithms. Not a minimization metric.
# Explaining the Plots

## Variable Definitions
### Matchable
An boolean attribute of each event which describes whether or not a correct pairing of jets can be calculated. An event is matchable if 4 reconstructed jets correspond injectively to the generated jets. Independent of pairing algorithm. 
### Best
The best pairing as determined by the pairing algorithm. Independent of "correct." 
### Best + Matchable
The best answer as determined by the pairing algorithm when a correct answer can be calculated.
### Correct
The events where the pairing algorithm identified the jet pairs correctly.

## Plot Descriptions
### Number of Jets Per Event
Dataset attribute, independent of pairing Algorithm. 
### Number of b-Tagged Jets per Event
Dataset attribute, independent of pairing Algorithm. 
### All Jet Pairs 
Compares shape of histogram for all events and matchable events. If the shapes are drastically dissimilar, further investigation is required to make sure the "matchableness" is not biased. 
### Best Jet Pair 
### Best Jet Pair (Normalized)


# Explanation of Terms
## Delphes Data Attributes
| var name        	| branch      	| subbranch         	| description                  	|
|-----------------	|-------------	|-------------------	|------------------------------	|
| l_genPID        	| 'Particle'  	| 'Particle.PID'    	| PDG ID*           	|
| l_genStatus     	| 'Particle'  	| 'Particle.Status' 	|                              	|
| l_genPt         	| 'Particle'  	| 'Particle<span></span>.PT'     	| particle transverse momentum 	|
| l_genEta        	| 'Particle'  	| 'Particle.Eta'    	| particle Eta                 	|
| l_genPhi        	| 'Particle'  	| 'Particle.Phi'    	| Particle Phi                          	|
| l_genMass       	| 'Particle'  	| 'Particle.Mass'   	| particle mass                	|
| l_jetPt         	| 'Jet'       	| 'Jet.<span></span>PT'          	| jet transverse momentum      	|
| l_jetEta        	| 'Jet'       	| 'Jet.Eta'         	| jet Eta                      	|
| l_jetPhi        	| 'Jet'       	| 'Jet.Phi'         	| jet Phi                      	|
| l_jetMass       	| 'Jet'       	| 'Jet.Mass'        	| jet Mass                     	|
| l_jetBTag       	| 'Jet'       	| 'Jet.BTag'        	| "this is probably a b Jet" 	|
| l_missingET_met 	| 'MissingET' 	| 'MissingET.MET'   	|                              	|
| l_missingET_Phi 	| 'MissingET' 	| 'MissingET.Phi'   	|                              	|
| l_scalarHT      	| 'ScalarHT'  	| 'ScalarHT.<span></span>HT'     	|                              	|

\* PDG ID is the ID assigned to any given particle by the Monte Carlo particle numbering scheme. The numbering scheme can be found on page 3 of this [paper](http://pdg.lbl.gov/2018/reviews/rpp2018-rev-monte-carlo-numbering.pdf).

### Particle

### Jet

### Missing ET

### Scalar HT

# Functions 
## Functions for Plotting
### plotOneHistogram
Takes in data, figure number, title, x label, min and max values, and number of
bins and creaates histogram.
### compareManyHisograms

# Cut History
## First Cut
'''
testRun = False
dR_cut_quarkToJet = 0.40
mass_higgs = 125.0 #GeV
width_higgs = 15.0 #GeV, reco width
minJetPt = 20.0 #GeV
maxJetAbsEta = 2.5
'''



